VIRTUAL MACHINE DOCUMENTATION

1) 	GENERAL
1a)	Memory Segments
2) 	BYTECODE
2a)	Stack & memory instructions
2b)	Function instructions
2c)	Arithmetic & comparison instructions


1)	GENERAL
PangVM is a register based VM. It's memory is divided in
two main areas - the program section and the stack. The VM
is designed alongside Pang, but can be used for anything.


1a) Memory Segments
The program segment contains constant definitions such as
strings and numbers and the bytecode itself. It's read-only.
The first four bytes contains the offset of the first 
bytecode instruction. The area in between contains data
required by the program. 

The stack is the area modified by the bytecode, and is 
dynamically expanded by the interpreter as it's needed.
Unlike the program segment, the stack segment has almost
no limitations on what can / should be done with it. The 
stack in PangVM grows upwards, starting at address 0.


2) 	BYTECODE
The Pang instruction set is as simple as possible. Future
expansion is possible. 

There are three different types of instructions in the 
Pang IS:

	1. STACKMEM
		Instructions altering the stack and memory.

	2. FUNCTION
		Instructions handling functions.

	3. ARIT_CMP
		Arithmetic operations and comparisons.

Each instruction can take a 0, 1 or 4 byte argument. 

STACKMEM instructions require a register argument. The
register is encoded into the operation itself. 

ARIT_CMP instructions use the two low order bit to define
whehter it's external argument is 32 or 8 bit, and what it means.

2a)	Stack & memory instructions
STACKMEM instructions are allocated the range 0x10 to
0x7F. The low order nibble is used to define the register
used by the instruction.

OP_PUSH		0x10		0 bytes
	Push a register onto the stack.

OP_POP		0x20		0 bytes
	Pop from the stack to a register.

OP_MOV		0x30		1 or 4 bytes
	The 4th bit in the LO nibble is 1 if the external
	argument is 32 bit and references a memory address. 
	It's 0 if the external arg is 8 bit and references 
	a registry. 

	The 3rd bit in the LO nibble is 1 if the value held
	in the external value should be put moved to the 
	registry. The register value is moved to the external
	argument if this bit is 0.

	The two LO bits in the LO nibble defines the registry
	to move to/from. The available registers are RA-RD.

	Examples:
	Move the contents of RD to RA:	
		0x33 0x00 		(RD -> RA)
		or
		0x3B 0x03		(RA <- RD)

	Move from memory to RA:
		0x3C 0xFF 0xFF 0xFF 0xFF

	Move from RA to memory:
		0x39 0xFF 0xFF 0xFF 0xFF

2b)	Function instructions
Function instructions are allocated the range 0x80 to 
0x8F. 

OP_CALL		0x80 		4 bytes
	Push the specialized registers and move to the
	specified offset in the program segment. 

OP_RET		0x81 		0 bytes
	Pop the specialized registers from the stack. Moves
	to the next instruction after the previous OP_CALL.

2c)	Arithmetic & comparison instructions
ARIT_CMP instructions are given the range C0 to FF. The 
two lowest order bits define the context and length of the
external argument. The external argument can reference either:
 - A register 					8 bit
 - A memory location (stack)  	32 bit
 - A memory location (data)		32 bit
 - A literal value 				32 bit

All ARIT_CMP instructions operate on the value derived from
the external argument and RA. The result of the operation is 
stored in the result register for comparions and RA for arithmetic
operations.

The following pseudo-code will result in RA holding the value 10.
	mov ra, 5 	; Move 5 to RA
	add $5 		; Add 5 to RA, store result in RA
